# Setting up Windows 10 for the Project(C) 2015 by Damir Cavar <damir.cavar@gmail.com>Last change: 20151112 by Damir CavarThis describes the setup on Windows 10. It might also work on Windows 7 or 8.x.To set up a working environment for programming and compilation you need:* Cygwin for Windows* Git for Windows (and maybe SourceTree offered for free by Bitbucket)* Foma for Windows* CLion (1.2.1 or newer) for Windows## Setting up Cygwin for WindowsDownload [Cygwin](http://cygwin.com/install.html). Make sure that you use the right version, either the 32-bit Windows version, or the 64-bit one. I use the 64-bit version and downloaded *setup-x86_64.exe*. Keep this setup program. You will need it to install more binaries or libraries. You might have to download it again to alter the installation and setting of your Cygwin installation.I use *Install from Internet*. My Cygwin root directory is:C:\cygwin64I also select "install for all users". The Local Package Directory you can keep as is. This will download all packages in the default to your local user Download folder. Leave *Direct Connection*, unless you really need to set up some Proxy. I use as a repo:http://lug.mtu.eduYou can try any other repo. Whichever is faster (likely the closer sites are), you should use it.Cygwin will fetch the software package catalogues after the last Next.In the *Devel* list select the following packages for installation by clicking on the recycle symbol left of skip in the list:* autoconf* automake* binutils* bison* byacc* check* clang* clang-analyzer* cmake* cmake-doc* cmake-gui* cygwin-devel* dejagnu* doxygen* doxygen-doxywizard* flex* gcc-core* gcc-fortran* gcc-g++* gcc-objc* gcc-objc++* gdb* git* git-gui* gperf* indent* libreadline-devel* make* patchIn the *Lib* section select:* libboost-develYou might want to make sure that in *Shells* the following packages are selected, too:* bash* bash-completionIn *Utils* you might want to select:* diffutilsIn *Text* the following packages might be useful:* less* gettextIn *Graphics* you might want to add:* graphvizClick on *Next* and confirm again, and wait till all packages are installed. If there is no error message or problem, you should have a Cygwin entry in your Start menu with a *Cygwin64 Terminal* entry. You can start Bash in the terminal window now.Read more about tutorial and what you can do with Cygwin on the [documentation page](http://cygwin.com/docs.html).## Setting up GitIf you installed git using Cygwin, you might need a Windows specific Git only to be able to run it in the Windows Command Line tool or in PowerShell. You can download it here:http://www.git-scm.com/download/win## Setting up Boost LibrariesIf you used Cygwin to install the Boost libraries, you do not need to set up anything else.## Setting up FomaThe Google Code (retired) Foma page contains a lot of valuable documentation and older code snapshots:https://code.google.com/p/foma/The current version binaries and sources can be downloaded at the following [Bitbucket page](http://www.bitbucket.org/):https://bitbucket.org/mhulden/foma/downloadsWhile I am writing this, the current version is: *foma-0.9.18_win32.zip*. Download the Windows 32-bit version and unpack it somewhere. In the win32 folder you will see a MinGW_version sub-folder. Ignore this one.I create a folder in *C:\Foma* and within this folder I create a subfolder: *bin*, *doc*, *include*, *lib*. Copy the following binaries and DLLs from *win32* to the *C:\Foma\bin* folder: *cgflookup.exe*, *cygncurses7.dll*, *cygreadline7.dll*, *cygwin1.dll*, *flookup.exe*, *foma.exe*. If you want to use Foma from the Command Line Tool or PowerShell, open the Control Panel, go to System and Security, select System, and in the left menu select *Advanced system settings*.In the popup window select the tab *Advanced* and click on *Environment Variables...*. In the lower list of variables, the System variables, select the Path variable, click *Edit...* and append to the Variable value string ";C:\Foma\bin" (without the quotes, of course). Confirm with a couple of OKs to close the dialog, and with the next reboot the Foma binaries should be in your PATH variable and you can call them directly from the Command Line tool or PowerShell.We will need the libraries and include files to be able to compile with Foma. Thus you also need to download the Foma source from the site above, the file named *foma-0.9.18.tar.gz*. In the *Cygwin64 Terminal* (see previous section) unpack the source of Foma using the following command (assuming that you downloaded the source into the Download folder on your account):	ls /cygdrive/c/Users/Damir/Downloads/foma-0.9.18*You should see an output like:	/cygdrive/c/Users/Damir/Downloads/foma-0.9.18.tar.gz	/cygdrive/c/Users/Damir/Downloads/foma-0.9.18_win32.zipNote: to access your Windows folders from Cygwin you need to use the Unix-notation for the file-system hierarchy, i.e. the " / " rather than the Windows typical " \ ". You also have to know that the Windows file-system is associated with the */cygdrive* folder. The *C:*-drive is under the */cygdrive/c" folder, and in there you will find your Users folder, in my case my files are under "C:\Users\Damir".To untar the file use:	 tar xzvf /cygdrive/c/Users/Damir/Downloads/foma-0.9.18.tar.gzRemember to replace "Damir" in the command above with your own account name or folder name.In the home of Cygwin you will find now a folder *foma-0.9.18*. Go into the folder:	cd foma-0.9.18Open the *Makefile* file in an editor. *Vim* should be installed. You might find *nano* easier, if you do not know *Vim*. If you use *nano*, open the *Makefile* using:	nano MakefileGo to the line that looks like:	LDFLAGS = -lreadline -lz -ltermcapComment out the last part of the command line by inserting a # before *-ltermcap":	LDFLAGS = -lreadline -lz # -ltermcapSave the *Makefile* using Ctrl-O and exit *nano* using Ctrl-X.You successfully manipulated the *Makefile* and linker instructions to generate Foma binaries and libraries.Run the make process using:	makeYou should see now the binaries and libraries in the folder, if the compile process worked.It gets somewhat more complicated now. Follow the instructions carefully:* in the Cygwin Terminal (bash) type *cd * (just cd and Enter), which will take you to your Cygwin home directory* create a bin folder using *mkdir bin** create a file called *sudo* with *nano* using the command: *nano bin/sudo** paste into this file in *nano* the following content:	\#!/usr/bin/bash	cygstart --action=runas "$@" * save the file and leave *nano** make the file executable by issuing the following command: *chmod +x bin/sudo"* go back to the Foma source folder: *cd foma-0.9.18** type the following command to install the foma includes, libraries and binaries in Cygwin:	../bin/sudo mkdir /usr/local/include	../bin/sudo cp foma*.h /usr/local/include/.	../bin/sudo cp libfoma.* /usr/local/lib/.	../bin/sudo cp *.exe  /usr/local/bin/.This is it. You can verify that the Foma includes and libs are in the right folders under */usr/local*.When you install CLion, make sure that it uses the Cygwin distribution and that it confirms that it found all the necessary compilers and tools.If you open Foma-tutorial in CLion now, you should be able to simply run the compile and test task using the right-pointing green arrow.Have fun!	